# Explaination of Ford Johnson Algorithm

**Example Input**
[5, 3 , 8, 1, 7, 2, 4, 6, 9]

## Step 1 ##
If there is a odd number of elements, save it as a variable and remove it from the list.

In this case - 9
The list now - [5, 3 , 8, 1, 7, 2, 4, 6]

## Step 2 ##
My function - Get Sorted Pairs and mergeSortPair
Sort the rest of the numbers in the list into this form

Get sorted Pairs
(pair up the number and move the smaller number infront)
[3, 5] [1, 8] [2, 7] [4, 6]

mergeSortPair using a recursion function
(sort the pairs by the first element)

std::inplace_merge
Merges two sorted consecutive ranges in a container into a single sorted range, without using extra memory (i.e., it operates in-place).

Order 1:
Left portion
[1, 8] [3, 5]

Right portion
[2, 7] [4, 6]

Order 2:
[1, 8] [2, 7] [3, 5] [4, 6]

## Step 3 ##
Push the first element (smaller number) into main sequence
Push the second element (larger number) into pending sequence

Main Sequence
[1, 2, 3, 4]

Pending Sequence
[8, 7, 5, 6]

## Step 4 ##
My function - jacobsthalInsert
Using the Jacobsthal sequence to generate the indices on which element from pend to add to main.

This is the Jacobsthal sequence generated by the pend size
[1, 3, 0, 2]

Based on the indices, loop through the pend and use the binary insertion to find the right position in the main. Insert the pend number to main sequence.

## Step 5 ##
Using binary search, insert the odd number 9 back into the main sequence.

## Result ##
After inserting the final odd number the main sequence is sorted.
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]

## Why is vector faster then deque ##
1. std::vector is stored in a contigous memory block, where all the elements
are stored together each other in memory. In deque, it is stored in fixed size
memory blocks. Thus to insert a element, it has to jump between blocks of memory
to insert, which makes it slower
2. Modern CPUs are optimized for contigous memory thus will benefit from cache efficiency

In what cases deque is faster than vector
1. In the situation where many of the insertions are at the front, push pop with deque is faster
